Kidnap and Restraints From time to time actions and roleplay will allow for both kidnap and restraint of other characters (other players or monster role characters). The Lorien Trust allow these actions as part of the game but only under strict rules and guidelines. Kidnapping a character should only be done with the presence of a referee (or marshal for plot situations) and should be limited in both time and scope – preventing others from roleplaying through unnecessary or prolonged kidnap goes against the spirit of the rules and should be avoided.

Kidnap and In-Character restraints should only ever be used with extreme caution - if a character is to be restrained it should be done with the explicit out of character permission of the person being bound, if necessary, a referee can be requested to facilitate alternative alternate solutions. 1 min of roleplayed action is required to bind, restrain or otherwise incapacitate a character (must be IC unresisting) and must be done with suitable props or physreps. At no point must a bound character be restrained out of character, this may be dangerous in an emergency and is not acceptable in any way, instead the bonds should be handed to the person being restrained and they hold or lay them safely to represent being bound.

Example: A thief is caught stealing and is subdued (knocked unconscious) to be taken to the Militia. Whilst the character is unconscious, the person playing the character is asked if it is ok to tie up the character by the wrists and feet to prevent escape when awake so the Militia can ask some questions. The player agrees and is handed a short length of rope to hold between their clenched fists to represent the hands being tied (preventing weapon use or spellcasting) – in addition the thief agrees to keep their feet close together to represent their feet being tied together (preventing running away). The thief character is woken and the roleplay can continue.

A character that has been bound for 10 mins with no restrictions (being watched, debilitated, unconscious etc) will be able to break free of any bonds (through working knots free, slipping wrists or feet through gaps or just luck). Another character may spend 1 min of roleplayed action to free a bound character (cutting ropes etc.). Some Occupational skills may allow a character to Escape Bonds (see the Occupational Skills Section).

Children under 16 are immune to the Bonds and Restraints rule and may NEVER be restrained (the bonds simply do not work). In addition, Children under 16 should never be part of any kind of roleplay Kidnap in any way – simply put, it is inappropriate for a family friendly event. The breaking of the letter or the spirit of this rule will be a serious breach of the Lorien Trust standards and will be dealt with accordingly.