A player may decide to retire their character at any point when not at an event (contact enquiries@lorientrust.com to discuss). The character will be assumed to have died from undetermined causes. Whilst at an event, retiring a character can only occur at Game Control. If a character is retired and the Lorien Trust are satisfied that there has been no breaking of the Spirit of the rules (for example – going on a killing spree for a final send-off with no chance of in-character roleplay for tracking the killer character down because of the retiring of the character) then the following process may be used:

• Under normal circumstances a character may be retired, when this happens the number of occupational skills active at the moment of retirement will be calculated (including prerequisite skills) – half of these OSP points will be refunded to your account. 
• No Special creature card skills, powers or other items will affect the above calculation and the offer is final – once the character has been declared dead and the process has completed, it cannot be retrospectively overturned. 
• A character with 2 or more Tier 5 occupational skills can credit their account with up to half (rounded down) Tier 5 Vouchers that may be used at a later date when the prerequisite skills have been attained (these credited retirement vouchers may not be used for High magic). This means that a character retiring with four Tier 5 skills will be credited two Tier 5 vouchers, a character retiring with three or two Tier 5 skills will be credited one Tier 5 voucher. A character retiring with one Tier 5 skill is not eligible for a Tier 5 voucher credit. 
• If a character is retired and all of the points above have been satisfied – a new character may be created using any banked or returned occupational skills and may purchase up to 4 skills as normal – however, two skills may be chosen to advance by two Tiers, this is explicitly permitted only during the retirement process and must be performed during character creation.

**Example**: *A player chooses to retire a powerful character with two Tier 5 skills and several other lower level skills and receives 120 OSPs in their account (from saved and returned points) – plus a Tier 5 voucher is noted on their account. The player creates a character with the Poison Lore skill as well as Incantation level 2 and some other character skills (up to 16 points). They decide to instantly buy +4 AND +8 Power (counting as one slot), Create Poison (Novice) (counting as another slot), Immune to Fear, and +2 Dismiss/Control (counting as slot 3 and 4). Because all 4 skill slots have been used the character cannot advance any skill further for that year even if they obtain a Guild or Faction Training opportunity. In this case the player could advance their skills of + power or create poison by another level the following year and after an additional year – use their credited Tier 5 Voucher to obtain the highest level of +spell power or Create Poison (Magical).*