Death & Dying A character that has any location reduced to -1 LHV for any reason has taken a Mortal Wound and will enter their Grace Period. A body location cannot be reduced below -1 LHV. Locations at zero are unusable but stable and do not deteriorate.

If all of a character’s body locations simultaneously have a Mortal Wound, all your locations are at -1 you will enter your Grace period (if you are not already in one) and if the current time remaining in the grace period is higher than 4 minutes it will immediately drop to 4 minutes.

A Grace Period is normally 10 minutes in length, If a character becomes the target of an effect that would enter them into their Grace Period whilst they are already in their Grace Period, they do not gain a second. Instead their Grace Period will continue using the lowest time of the two (time left of the original Grace Period, or the new Grace Period if it is shorter).

While all locations are at -1 you may not regenerate damage unless a Loresheet or Lammie specifically states that you may regenerate when at -1 on all locations. Note: This does not affect normal curative or healing actions, only the Regeneration effect.

Grace Period Expiring If a character has entered or has been in their Grace Period a referee will check that all of the rules have been followed. If it should take a Referee a short period of time to clarify all the facts of a situation, they may declare a character in an indeterminate state, typically this may be between a character being dead or alive. Anything done to the character during this period will still have an effect as normal and any power expended will still be expended even if the decision is that the character was not in a state to have been affected by the effect used. An indeterminate state merely means that is impossible to determine the state of the character until the Referee makes a decision. The player must report the character death to Game Control and often will be accompanied by the Referee or other volunteer to provide additional details.

Self-Declaring If a character has died, and the player of the character is satisfied that the death is legitimate, and no Referee is present, the Player should declare their character dead. The player must report the character death to Game Control promptly. The Lorien Trust are confident that in most cases where a player has understood the situation, damage and/or effects that has killed the character – that in the Spirit of the Rules, they will declare the character death at Game control. Only where there is an explicit requirement for a Referee to be present (for the use of a Venom Poison as an example) or where there is concern with the legitimacy of the rules, calls, effects or abilities being used – should a Referee be required.


**What happens if my Character dies?**

After Character Death When a character dies no power, spell or effect can bring it back but there may still be some roleplay that will involve the corpse of the character (some special creatures disappear on death - this will be detailed on your lammie or loresheet). Do not worry – this is not the end of your Roleplay or participation in the game – you can create a new character. Some of this roleplay will involve spells or Occupational Skills such as Speak to Dead, Forensics, Lay to Rest, Last Rites Corrupt body and Greater Corrupt Body (See Spell and Occupational Skill Descriptions for details). These effects have direct in-game effects and whist we understand that you may wish to jump straight back in and create a new character - please check out-of-character with the referee and those in the immediate vicinity if there is a reasonable chance of these effects being used.

Additionally, there may be roleplay involving rites of Faith or Tradition (for example characters paying respects to the body of a character of renown, a friend or hero) to enrich the game. At this point you may wish to aid in the roleplay by physically staying in game as the corpse and is entirely voluntary (you should never feel or be pressured into doing this).

In both situations as detailed above - the maximum time that a corpse will remain in-game is one (1) hour from the point that a referee has declared the death of the character (or until time-out, whichever is sooner). After this time has expired Erdreja will remove the characters corpse and you should return to Game Control to register the character as dead (unless that has been already dealt with and the referee is happy for you to stay as the in-game corpse). In exceptional cases permission may be given for a longer period of remaining in-game as a corpse but this must be signed off by the Head of World Plot.

Sometimes your character may be killed in unusual, upsetting and what may seem unfair or unjust circumstances - especially in the case of Player vs Player death (PvP). The mechanics for gaining information about such deaths are strictly defined in the Rules, Spells and Effects listed above (Speak to Dead etc.). The effect of a Speak to Ancestor or other Rite/Ritual/or even Roleplaying of Scrying will not reveal any information about a character’s death.

Out-of-character information passed on after a death that can or will be used in-character is considered cheating. This includes using rationales that lead to investigations, actions or other methods for “Legitimately” finding out that a character has been killed (such as a character being “Presumed missing” after a short period of time - after gaining information out-ofcharacter about an IC-death). Additionally it is considered bad form to return as a character that instigates, leads, facilitates or otherwise helps in roleplay to find out in-character what has happened to your own previous character (this includes postdeath letters, diaries or other roleplay that has not been prepared and remains in-play (such as a Will or other paperwork deposited at the Bank of Erdreja).

**If you are at any time unsure of what you are required to do (rules of spells or effects) or require help please ask for a Referee or head to Game Control who will be able to help you.**

At Game Control The dead character will be marked as non-playable on the database and will not be able to be played again. At this point you may wish to generate a new character, change into new or reorganised costume and start playing again. Alternatively, you may wish to take a break for a short while, relax OOC and take a moment to gather your thoughts, perhaps take some time to head to the Monster room and play a few roles. Whatever you feel most comfortable doing – it does not mean that it is the end of your adventures in Erdreja. There is no limit to the number of characters that you wish to play (although you may only have one active character on the database at any time) and you can also choose to change Factions and experience the different styles of play in each. The Game Control volunteers will be on hand to offer advice.

In all cases and situations, when a corpse/body is removed from play – all in-character items, lammies, in-character coins and incharacter paperwork that were being carried by the character will disappear with the corpse. These items will then be handed in to Game Control and any lammies retained by Game Control so that the physrep can be returned to you.

