The Bears The Bears are comprised of the Peoples of Caledonia and south-western Island of Orkneyjar (which they currently share joint stewardship with the Wolves Faction). Made up of Groups and Clans, which fit into two main categories: Celts (including Highlanders, Islanders and Lowlanders) and Picts (generally non-Caledonian-born Bears). Predominantly human - Bears are traditionally clad in Tartan, generally in the form of Kilts. Armour can vary from the practical and rugged to ornate and intricately tooled suits of Artisan Plate for those that can afford the luxury. The Weapons are equally varied with each of the Bears Faction members (young and old) being capable fighters ready to defend their Hearth and Homeare comprised of the Peoples of Caledonia and south-western Island of Orkneyjar (which they currently share joint stewardship with the Wolves Faction). Made up of Groups and Clans, which fit into two main categories: Celts (including Highlanders, Islanders and Lowlanders) and Picts (generally non-Caledonian-born Bears). Predominantly human - Bears are traditionally clad in Tartan, generally in the form of Kilts. Armour can vary from the practical and rugged to ornate and intricately tooled suits of Artisan Plate for those that can afford the luxury. The Weapons are equally varied with each of the Bears Faction members (young and old) being capable fighters ready to defend their Hearth and Home.

The Bears have a reputation for being people of celebration, hospitality, and honour. However, do not let their jovial nature deceive you - for the Bears are ferocious warriors, willing fight with passion and purpose. The Nation is led by Lairds, who are charged with the day to day running of the Faction. The three Queens of the Bears are the Spiritual focus of the Faction and remain key members of the Privy Council. Society is civilised and generally respectful, with there being no law in Caledonia other than the ‘Will of the Queens’. From the Chaotic beginnings of the Faction and its people - the Bears have gained strength and are ready to face any challenge to their People and Lands.