The people of the Southlands are an Empire of diverse cultures and peoples, Scholars, Artisans, Thinkers, Inventors, Nobles and Nomads – with seemingly little in common to account for their zealous unity when facing outsiders. Bringing all of this creativity and invention to the Battlefield is a sight to behold and terrifying thing to face. The people of the Southlands are a Faction of diverse cultures and peoples, Scholars, Artisans, Thinkers, Inventors, Nobles and Nomads – with seemingly little in common to account for their zealous unity when facing outsiders. The War Leader of the Jackals commands a council of advisers, generals, and viziers - these report to the War Leader themself and oversee the internal day-to-day affairs of the Jackals and thus, by extension, the Southlands. The High Vizier of the Nile (also the voice of the War Leader in their absence), oversee the internal strand of the Jackals - attending to matters and issues arising within the Faction, aided by the various High representatives.

The lands of the Jackal Faction are as diverse as its people - with sprawling cities, ports and fortresses, Remote towns and communities, temples to long forgotten Ancestors and entities, lush forests, rivers that could encircle entire Factions and mountain ranges of unimaginable dangers. Amongst all of this the deserts of the Southlands provide both barriers to travel and trade as well as (for those skilled in such ways) a sandy ocean to explore and navigate for a lifetime. The Mysteries that they hold will draw the brave and the foolish to riches or death for a thousand-thousand lifetimes to come.