Beguile (Mind Command Effect) 
• The target becomes a devoted admirer and supporter of the person who has Beguiled them (Valuing the beguiler's life above their own) 
• Unless the beguiler specifically states otherwise the target will not take any action against the Beguiler (Even if the target character would normally consider this to be in their best interests) 
• Beguile is a Charm and will last until time-out

The target will allow the beguiler to kill them without offering any resistance and will defend and protect the beguiler against any offensive action (even at the risk of their own death). This willingness extends only to the Beguiler, not to any allies that the beguiler may have. The Beguiler may set goals that they wish the target to help them achieve - these goals can be added to or amended directly by the Beguiler (and new goals can be set) at any time while the Beguile effect is ongoing. Any goals set must abide by the spirit of the rules and OOC safety considerations - if the target believes that a goal is out-of-character inappropriate then they should seek advice from a Referee or Marshal. The target is not a mindless slave, simply and unquestioningly following direct commands, but rather a willing accomplice who retains their own personality - except that they will now turn all of their skills, knowledge, and creativity to the task of advancing the beguiler's stated goals. This may include offering information and advice as appropriate or seeking clarification as to the beguiler's wishes if they are unclear. If the beguile effect is not successfully removed before time-out then the target will have no memory of being beguiled – they may recall the actions that they took while under the effect, but not that they were under such an effect. If the effect is successfully removed prior to time-out the character will have full memory. Note: If a character has been Beguiled and is also under the Control creature effect (for example Control Daemon), the control effect will take precedence over Beguile orders (Example if a character that has beguiled another, orders a character to run left and a Controlling character gives a contradicting order to run right – the Controlled/Beguiled creature will run right. The Beguiled is a desire to do something willingly to help whereas the Control effect forces the character to obey regardless of their willingness).